- [Narrator] Sometimes declaring multiple Beans
to express profiles isn't ideal.
In addition, sometimes you want to look
different files from the class path
based on some value or environment variable.
Sometimes you just want to enter complex
expressions to define things in your configuration.
Enter into the picture Spring Expression Language - SpEL.
SpEL gives you the ability
to use expressions in your configuration
to configure your objects.
Let's see a very simple case in action.
All right, so let's jump into our Application Config class.
And the first thing we're going to do
is remove this timeService12 that we just created.
And we're going to remove the profile on our Bean
for the time service.
And we're going to create a new @value annotation.
And we'll get to the details here in a minute.
private boolean is24.
And now, instead of sending "true" to our time service
we're going to set is24.
But how are we going to set it?
The way we're going to set it is we're going to use
Spring Expression Language to translate
the environment that we're in, the profile that we want
into a Boolean.
So, the first thing that we're going to do here
is we're going to double quote this.
And we're going to send #.
And # says, "use spell; use Spring Expression Language".
And we're going to create Inner Spring Expression Language
a new Boolean because this is a Boolean value.
So, new Boolean.
And of course that needs to be in parentheses.
So, to pass in a new Boolean
we are going to read from the environment
a value
called spring.profiles.active
So, that comes from the environment,
which is how we're passing it in.
We're going to not equal that to a value of dev.
So, let's walk through this one more time.
So, we're going to create a new Boolean.
We're going to use the environment.
And remember, this is the Spring environment;
so, this includes the system OS environment variables,
the VM variables or the VM arguments,
the application arguments,
as well as any configuration that you've loaded.
So, all of that in appropriate hierarchy
will be loaded into this environment.
So, we're going to say "is24 is whenever we are not in dev".
So, when our profile is set to not dev.
Which is the same behavior that we saw before.
So, let's run our dev application from before.
And we should still see our time in 12-hour format.
And indeed we do.
And we'll flip over here to Prod and we'll run that one.
And we see it in 24-hour format.
So, of course this is just the tip of the ice burg
of what you can do with Spring Expression Language.
One of the most common use cases that I did for this
was before we brought Config Server into play,
we would write a Config for each of our environments
and set those in Resources with names like
application-dev.properties
and we would use this expression language
up here in line 14 on our property source
in order to know which application properties to load.
And we would set that profile in our App Server,
so this was a long time ago before I was doing
microservices development with Spring.
Instead we were deploying two large application servers.
So, it's very possible for Spring Expression Language
to do a whole bunch of stuff
and we're just really touching it briefly here
to give you some exposure to it.
If you are using Spring development for applications,
you should know SpEL like the back of your hand.
It can save you a lot of extraneous configuration
by just using some simple logic in a value statement
or in some other annotation within your class.